Creates a "Writing a spike" document for the conda organization (#611)
conda/infra: HOW_WE_USE_GITHUB.md

## Standard Ticket/Issue

TODO

## Epics

TODO

## Spikes

In this section, we go over the procedure to follow when creating spikes. Exactly what
these types of issues are and the steps to take when creating them are all outlined
below. These guidelines apply for all projects falling underneath the
[conda](github.com/conda) organization.

### What is a spike?

A spike is a term that is borrowed from extreme programming and agile development.
They are used when the **outcome of a ticket is unknown or even optional**. For example,
when first coming across a problem that has not been solved before, a team may choose
to either research the problem or create a prototype in order to better understand it.

Additionally, spikes represent work that **may or may not actually be completed
or implemented**. An example of this are prototypes created to explore possible solutions.
Not all prototypes are implemented and the purpose of creating a prototype
is often to explore the problem space more. For research oriented tasks, the end result
of this research may be that a feature request simply is not viable at the moment and
would result in putting a stop to that work.

> Finally, spikes are **time boxed**. This means that we set a definite limit on how long

Reviewer: The agile technique is called timeboxing, so I think it's correct to say `timeboxed`, right?

```suggestion
Finally, spikes are **timeboxed**. This means that we set a definite limit on how long
```

we want our contributors to work on a spike. We do this to prevent contributors

> from falling into a rabbit hole they may never return from (scary!). Instead, we set
> a time limit, typically between 1 and 3 "days", to perform work on the spike and then
> have the assignee report back to the development team. If the tasks defined in
> the spike have not yet been completed, a decision is made on whether it makes sense
> to perform further work on the spike.

Reviewer: Given the asynchronous nature of Open Source work, "days" are a bad scale for any contribution formats, including spikes. It suffices to say work on spikes need to be timeboxed and decided case by case to be inclusive to volunteers and non-staff contributors.

```suggestion
from falling into a rabbit hole they may never return from (scary!). Instead, we set
a time limit to perform work on the spike and then have the assignee report back to
the development team. If the tasks defined in the spike have not yet been completed,
a decision is made on whether it makes sense to perform further work on the spike.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't expect contributors to bother with spikes, I see it more as an informative document for anyone who is confused about what we are doing with our planning/what a spike means.

Perhaps we should remove all units from this doc like you're suggesting and include a note admonition that specifies the units we use on our team (e.g., 2-week sprints, "days" for our timeboxes, etc.)?

Reviewer: I'm trying to understand why spikes wouldn't be something we could encourage contributors (especially when they are paid to contribute)?

E.g. when they request a feature, they might be able to help with the request by spending time on researching the topic more than the initial issue. I think Jaime and Filipe have both done them, just like many other people in the past.

If we're documenting the Ursa team's choices for "agile development" here, I think this will be seen by potential contributors as the de-facto way to contribute, even if we're not requiring it.

I'd suggest removing the timeframes and just document spikes as "research issues" devoid of any more profound meaning.

Below is what that workflow looks like:

```mermaid
flowchart LR

%% nodes
create[Create spike]

> work[Work on spike for\ntime box amount]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
work[Timeboxed work on spike]
```

done{Is it done?}
finished[Finished]
continue{More time?}

%% graph
create --> work
work --> done
done -->|No| continue
done -->|Yes| finished

> continue -->|Yes,\nset new time box| work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continue -->|Yes,\nrestart timebox| work
```

continue -->|No| finished
```

### When do I create a spike?

A spike should be created when we do not have enough information to move forward with solving

> a problem. That simply means whenever we are dealing with unknowns or processes which our
> development team has never encountered before, it may be useful for us to create a spike.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a problem. That simply means whenever we are dealing with unknowns or processes which the
development team has never encountered before, it may be useful for us to create a spike.
```

> In day-to-day work, this may appear when new bug reports or feature requests
> come in which deal with problems or technologies that our development team is unfamiliar with.
> For all issues which our development team has sufficient knowledge of, these issues should
> instead proceed as regular issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In day-to-day work, this may appear when new bug reports or feature requests
come in which deal with problems or technologies that the development team is unfamiliar with.
For all issues which the development team has sufficient knowledge of, these issues should
instead proceed as regular issues.
```

### When do I **not** create a spike?

Below are some common scenarios where creating a spike is not appropriate:

- Writing a technical specification
- Design work that would go into drafting how an API is going to look and function
- Any work that must be completed or is not optional

### How do I create and complete a spike?

The following section describes the exact process of creating and completing
a spike. There are two types of spikes to be aware of: "task spikes" and "issue spikes".
We cover these two types of spikes as well as some examples below.

#### Requirements for all spikes

> - A time box between one and three days (e.g. four hours; two days)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A timebox, at most one sprint long.
```

Reviewer 3: I think we should specify that we mean "two weeks" when we say "sprint" here, so maybe:

`- A timebox, at most one sprint long (i.e., two weeks).`

Reviewer 2: See suggestion for to use an admonition for our team specific units in https://github.com/conda/infra/pull/611#discussion_r984800996

- Background information for a would-be assignee

```

> Quick note about time boxes:
> 
> In "time box" time, one day is the amount of hours in a normal work day (eight hours).
> This does not need to be completed consecutively. So, it is possible to complete a
> spike which has been time boxed for one day over the course of three or four days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quick note about timeboxes:

As the length of a timebox we only set a maximum of one sprint given the asynchronous nature of Open Source projects like conda.
```

When creating an issue spike, do the following:

- Add the "spike" label to the issue
- Add a "Tasks List" section with a list of all applicable tasks for the spike.
  For example, if we expect to create another issue as a result of this spike, that should be stated
  there.

Here's an example issue spike:

---

**Description**

In order to better understand the needs of conda users, we intend to create a prototype for a new
feature.

**Time box:** 3 days

**Task List**

- [ ] Create a technical specification for this new feature
- [ ] Create a pull request demonstrating how this feature works with an example use case of it
- [ ] Present these findings at the upcoming conda community meeting

---

The above example has several tasks which may take considerable time to complete; therefore, it
warrants its own separate issue. It is also important to note that because this is an issue for
a prototype, the work is optional and can be discontinued at any time. Further work on it will
be determined by feedback from the project team or conda community.

Just like task spikes, issue spike time boxes can also be renegotiated and reset if the project

> team feels that further work is necessary or warranted.

Reviewer: This is way too complicated for regular contributors and represents a serious barrier of entry, we should dumb this text down so it become easy to understand and is less bureaucratic.

Author: @jezdez, I believe you are bringing up a good point.

This document is only intended for those us who spend a majority of their working hours on conda projects (everything under https://github.com/conda). Regular contributors (those submitting bug-fixes or suggesting enhancements) will not be pressured to follow these guidelines. Regardless, these individuals will still benefit by having this information available as it helps them better understand the core development team's project management practices.

Therefore, I would very much prefer not having this text simplified in anyway.

Reviewer: I've mentioned this in an Anaconda-internal chat as well: by making the document structured in this way, we're setting the expected mode of contribution to be “high barrier” but we need to keep it at “low barrier” (or if possible lowering it) to include everyone in the community and scale the ecosystem.

Maybe if this were just about the conda repo, or just for conda-build, it'd be fine, since project teams are free to self-govern and find their best practices. But this document here defines a specific style of agile development for the conda community infrastructure, and that's written too specific for that.

It's also wrong to say that this document would only for people "who spend a majority of their working hours on conda projects (everything under https://github.com/conda)" since
a) if it becomes a file in the conda organization repos, of course it will be seen as a requirement for everyone
b) not everyone working on projects under the conda organization are working in their working hours
c) the people providing feedback here (so far) are not representing the people working on projects under the conda organization

In short I think it's repeating the same mistakes of the past of defining community processes by fiat and not proposals.

In order to not have to manually type or copy/paste the above repeatedly, please note that it's possible to add text for the most commonly-used responses via [GitHub's "Add Saved Reply" option][docs-saved-reply].

---

## Types of issues

The following section describes the different types of issues that we create in our GitHub
projects and how/why they are used.

## Standard Ticket/Issue

TODO

## Epics

TODO

## Spikes

In this section, we go over the procedure to follow when creating spikes. Exactly what
these types of issues are and the steps to take when creating them are all outlined
below. These guidelines apply for all projects falling underneath the

> [conda](github.com/conda) organization.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`conda`](github.com/conda) organization.
```

Reviewer 4: According to our style guide, backticks are only necessary when talking about the command, not the org, package manager, etc.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the clarification, @kathatherine !

### What is a spike?

> A spike is a term that is borrowed from extreme programming and agile development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
"Spike" is a term that is borrowed from extreme programming and agile development.
```

They are used when the **outcome of a ticket is unknown or even optional**. For example,
when first coming across a problem that has not been solved before, a project may choose
to either research the problem or create a prototype in order to better understand it.

Additionally, spikes represent work that **may or may not actually be completed
or implemented**. An example of this are prototypes created to explore possible solutions.
Not all prototypes are implemented and the purpose of creating a prototype

> is often to explore the problem space more. For research oriented tasks, the end result

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is often to explore the problem space more. For research-oriented tasks, the end result
```

would result in putting a stop to that work.

Finally, spikes are **timeboxed**. This means that we set a definite limit on how long
we want our contributors to work on a spike. We do this to prevent contributors
from falling into a rabbit hole they may never return from (scary!). Instead, we set
a time limit to perform work on the spike and then have the assignee report back to
the project team. If the tasks defined in the spike have not yet been completed,
a decision is made on whether it makes sense to perform further work on the spike.

Below is what that workflow looks like:

```mermaid
flowchart LR

%% nodes
create[Create spike]
work[Timeboxed work on spike]
done{Is it done?}
finished[Finished]
continue{More time?}

%% graph
create --> work
work --> done
done -->|No| continue
done -->|Yes| finished
continue -->|Yes,\nrestart timebox| work
continue -->|No| finished
```

### When do I create a spike?

A spike should be created when we do not have enough information to move forward with solving
a problem. That simply means whenever we are dealing with unknowns or processes which the
project team has never encountered before, it may be useful for us to create a spike.

> In day-to-day work, this may appear when new bug reports or feature requests
> come in which deal with problems or technologies that the project team is unfamiliar with.
> For all issues which the project team has sufficient knowledge of, these issues should
> instead proceed as regular issues.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In day-to-day work, this kind of situation may appear when new bug reports or feature 
requests come in that deal with problems or technologies that the project team is 
unfamiliar with. All issues that the project team has sufficient knowledge of should 
instead proceed as regular issues.
```

### When do I **not** create a spike?

Below are some common scenarios where creating a spike is not appropriate:

- Writing a technical specification for a feature we know how to implement
- Design work that would go into drafting how an API is going to look and function
- Any work that must be completed or is not optional

### How do I create and complete a spike?

The following section describes the exact process of creating and completing
a spike. There are two types of spikes to be aware of: "task spikes" and "issue spikes".
We cover these two types of spikes as well as some examples below.

#### Requirements for all spikes

> - A timebox at a level of either "low", "medium" or "high" (more on this below)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A timebox at a level of either "low", "medium", or "high" (more on this below)
```

- Background information for a would-be assignee

#### Timebox levels

Our timebox levels try to give project teams and would-be contributors an idea

> of how much work is desired/expected for a given spike.  Our three timebox levels

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
of how much work is desired/expected for a given spike. Our three timebox levels
```

are defined as follows:

> - **Low** two to six hours of work

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Low** - two to six hours of work
```

- **Medium** - six to 12 hours of work
- **High** - 12 to 24 hours of work

> It is important to note that these hours do not have to be completely consecutively, but

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to note that these hours do not have to be completed consecutively, but
```

> you are encouraged to keep the timelines of your project team in mind if applicable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
you are encouraged to keep the timelines of your project team in mind, if applicable.
```

#### Task spikes

Task spikes belong to an existing issue. Common use cases for these types of spikes is
determining if a feature request is viable and if we want to pursue it further, or if a
reported bug is worth addressing or how best to address it.

When creating a task spike, do the following:

- Under the issues' "tasks" (sometimes called "What should be done?"), add a description
  of the spike and what needs to be done

> - Add a timebox next to this task (either "low", "medium" or "high")

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Add a timebox next to this task (either "low", "medium", or "high")
```

issue to themselves. These are often created when planning new features or investigating new
technologies that could benefit the project team.

When creating an issue spike, do the following:

- Add the "spike" label to the issue
- Add a "Tasks List" section with a list of all applicable tasks for the spike.
  For example, if we expect to create another issue as a result of this spike, that should be stated
  there.

Here is an example issue spike:

---

**Description**

In order to better understand the needs of conda users, we intend to create a prototype for a new
feature.

**Timebox:** High

**Task List**

- [ ] Create a technical specification for this new feature
- [ ] Create a pull request demonstrating how this feature works with an example use case of it
- [ ] Present these findings at the upcoming conda community meeting

---

The example above outlines all the steps necessary in order to create a prototype to present to
the conda community or project team. For this particular spike, the authors have specified its
timebox as "high", so as a contributor, you should plan to spend a considerable amount of time
on this spike.

> As someone working on a spike such as this, you are also highly encourage to keep all applicable
> information and discussions on this issue. This helps encourage a culture of asnychronous communication,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As someone working on a spike like this, you are also highly encourage to keep all applicable
information and discussions within the GitHub issue. This helps encourage a culture of asnychronous communication,
```

and also helps us keep public records of important conversations that can be easily referenced later.

> #### Additional guidelines to be aware of

Reviewer 3: This header should either be:
`#### Additional guidelines to be aware of:`
or 
`#### Additional guidelines`

> #### Additional guidelines to be aware of

Author: ```suggestion
#### Additional guidelines
```
